---
title: "Book management system using go language"
date: 2023-02-22
---

Welcome to my blog post 6. In the process of learning go for software engineering i have a clear understanding of go syntax. So, in the past week, I have made progress by building a book management system using a mySQL database.

## Using GoLang in building web severs to perform CRUD operations:
At first, I had some understanding of databases and their basic operations, but I had never used Go language to interact with databases. I decided to learn about Go's built-in database/sql package, which provides a set of interfaces to interact with relational databases.

## A book management system using go language and MySQL:
After acquiring all the necessary information i have decided to make a book management system which will perform CRUD operations to Create, Remove, Updade and Delete data(books) from a MySQL database. The packages used in this project are very basic and straight forward where i used Gorilla Mux package to create custom routes for HTTP endpoints and handle different HTTP methods using a API. I also used GORM package which consists of multiple database functions like mySQL, SQLLite, PostGRESQL functions provided by Dr.jinzhu at <code>"github.com/jinzhu/gorm"<code> I choose MySQL for this project as it is a relational database which is kinda suitable for this project and also i used <code>encoding/json<code> package which provides functionality for encoding and decoding data in JSON format. In this package Json marshall and unmarshall functions can be used to sterialize and desterialize data from and into JSON format respectively. This will make it easier to exchange data between different systems that use JSON. 

To design the structure of project i have used the basic model view controller architecture to make the project better coupled and cohesive. Here i have the basic architecture of the project and the routes to controller functions.

custom routes for their HTTP endpoints, handle different HTTP methods (e.g. GET, POST, PUT, DELETE), and extract parameters from URLs

Then, I created a connection to the database using the sql.Open() function, which takes the driver name and the data source name as arguments.

Once I had the connection to the database, I created a SELECT query using the db.Query() function and stored the result in a *sql.Rows variable. Then, I iterated over the rows using the rows.Next() function and read the values of each column using the rows.Scan() function.

Next, I moved on to the other CRUD operations. To perform an INSERT operation, I used the db.Exec() function, which takes an SQL statement and any arguments needed for the statement.

To perform an UPDATE operation, I used the db.Exec() function again, but this time with an UPDATE statement.

To perform a DELETE operation, I used the db.Exec() function again, but this time with a DELETE statement.

Overall, learning about CRUD operations in Go language was a straightforward process. I found that the database/sql package provided a simple and consistent interface for interacting with databases. By using the examples above, I was able to quickly get started with performing basic CRUD operations in Go. I'm excited to explore more advanced features of Go and databases in the future.



## My learnings while building a web server:
Go is indeed a great programming language for developing mobile applications, especially for its simplicity, concurrency, and robustness. And the Go mobile package makes it easy to create efficient native mobile apps.

To install the Go mobile package, you can use the following command:

<code>go get golang.org/x/mobile/cmd/gomobile</code>

After installing, you need to initialize it with the following command:

<code>gomobile init</code>

This will set up the necessary environment variables and create a few files to enable mobile development.

To compile a Go mobile program, you can use the gomobile bind command, which generates a library file that can be used in a native mobile app. Here's an example command:

<code>gomobile bind -target=android -o mylib.aar my/package</code>

## Challanges faced in my learnings

This will generate an AAR (Android Archive) file named mylib.aar that contains the compiled code from the my/package directory.

In addition to these commands, you can use other gomobile commands to build, install, and test your mobile app. For more information about the gomobile package and its usage, you can refer to the official documentation at <a href="https://pkg.go.dev/golang.org/x/mobile/cmd/gomobile">GoMobile Documentation</a>

## Conclusion:
